# TopoManager.py

## Context

To manage complex network topologies, a tool TopoManager.py has been developed. The initial goal of this tool was to provide switch tables containing Virtual Links parameters for each switch.

Then the tool has been completed to automatically generate VL check scripts (packet sender and monitor for each VL on each host).
Moreover, the tool has been configured to provide files for the 3 platforms used in this study:
- P4app on Mininet for simulation
- T4P4S for Linux PC with DPDK target
- P4PI for Raspberry 3 & 4 with DPDK target

This tool works with an input text file containing the links between hosts and switches and the complete path of each VL (with BAG and priority values). For PC and Raspberry, a port mapping must be also provided in input to make the correspondence between host and PC / ethernet interface name.

Finally, some basic checks have been performed on the input topology data (consistency between hosts/switches and VL paths, BAG value being a power of 2ms, host/port mapping).




The objective of this tool is to generate automaticaly complexe AFDX topology for p4app (Mininet), p4pi (Raspberry) or t4p4s (Linux PC).

## Launching command: 
```shell
python3 TopoManager.py <input_topo_file> <output_platform> [<destination path>]
```
Automatic creation switch command and VL check files with given topology file.

Destination path is current directory by default.

## Inputs: 
- Input topology file (see 'input_topo.txt' as example)
- Platform type: 'p4app' for mininet, 'p4pi' for Raspberry, 't4p4s' for PC
- [optional] destination path for the output files (default value, same repertory as the script) 

## Outputs:
- commands_x.txt : switch table for each switch
- check VL file : sniffer + packet sender for each VL
- topo.txt file (only for p4app) : to be added in the p4app package

---

## Environement:

> AFDX general parameters:
- `MAX_PACKET_SIZE` AFDX max packet size (default `64`)
- `ACTION_NAME` P4 : Name of the action function (default `"Check_VL"`)
- `DEFAULT_BAG` AFDX default BAG (default `64`)

> t4p4s (Linux PC) & p4pi (Raspberry) parameters:
- `AFDX_PREFIX` AFDX prefix (default `"03:00:00:00:00"`)
- `NB_PACKETS` Default number of packets to be send in test (default `1000`)
- `SENDER_SCRIPT_NAME` Name of the Python script used to send packer (default `"end_system.py "`)

> p4app (Mininet) parameters:
- `TABLE_NAME` AFDX table name (default `"afdx_table"`)
- `DEFAULT_PRIO` Default priority (if not defined in the input topo txt file) (default `1`)
- `MININET_SENDER_SCRIPT` Name of the Python script used to send packets in Mininet p4app package (default `"send_afdx_packet.py"`)
- `MININET_SNIFFER_SCRIPT` Name of the Python script used to monitor packets in Mininet (default `"sniffer_mininet.py"`)
- `MININET_MC_DUMP` Show the tables in mininet (default `True`)
- `P4APP_PRIORITY` Enable priority management (default `False`)



# end_system.py

Only for linux hardware (t4p4s / p4pi).
For Mininet and p4app, the script send_afdx_packet.py has to be used (or included in the p4app package).
See /QoS/NO_QOS.p4app/send_afdx_packet.py

This script simulate the behavior of an end system using a Linux station with ethernet cards

## Launching command: 
```shell
python3 end_system.py <interface_name> <number_of_packets> <vl1_bag1> [<vl2_bag2>] [<vl3_bag3>] ...
```
Example : For emitting 10000 packets on card eth2 2 VLs (id 1 and 2) with 64ms and 512ms respectivelly
```
python3 end_system.py eth2 10000 1_64 2_512
```
# analyser.py

This script analyzes the pcap files that are captured and saved using the .sh script generated by the TopologyManager.py

## Launching command: 
```shell
python3 analyser.py <analysis_topo_file>
```
Example : the input file should be written in the format below (for 2 vls, one from station h1 to h3 and second from h4 to h5)
```
1,h1,h3
2,h4,h5
```
for this example we should have 4 pcap files : h1.pcap, h3.pcap, h4.pcap and h5.pcap
